# On the Analytic Continuation of Field Configurations in Classical Field Theories

This repository contains all the material produced during the
preparation of my master project's thesis. You will find the actual
master thesis manuscript (`thesis`), the deck of slides (`thesis-defense`), the source code related
to the various numerical experiments (`analytical-continuation`), and simple tool to help with
the visualisation of the results (`viz`).

## Getting Started
These instructions will allow you to compile the various projects and run some code.

### Prerequists
To compile the latex source code for the master thesis's report and the slides, you will need:

  * Latex (TeXLive for example),
  * Biblatex package with biber backend,
  * Beamer document class.
  
To compile the C++ source code of the numerical experiments and visualization tool you will need:

  * A decend C++ compiler with support for C++11,
  * liblapacke development files,
  * libX11 development files (only for `viz`),
  * OpenGL 2.1 development files (only for `viz`).

### Compiling

  * `thesis`
  
        $ cd thesis; make
      
    The pdf of the thesis will be found in the directory thesis/pdf/document.pdf
    
  * `thesis-defense`
  
        $ cd thesis-defense; make
  
    The pdf with the slides will be found in the directory thesis-defense/pdf/document.pdf
    
  * `analytical-continuation`
    First copy the build configuration variable file
    
         $ cp analytical-continuation/site-config.{example,mk}
  
    and edit the paths in `site-config.mk` to suit your environment. Then run
  
         $ cd analytical-continuation; make
         
    The binaries will be placed in `analytical-continuation/bin`.
    
  * `viz`
    
        $ cd viz; make
        
    The vizualisation tool will be placed in `viz/bin/viz`, and the
    binary `viz/bin/mktestfile` can be used to generate a data sample
    to test `viz`:
    
        $ ./mktestfile > data.dat
        $ ./viz data.dat:0:1:2
        
    This should open a window and display a ondulating surface in 3D.


### Execution
The binaries located at `analytical-continuation/bin` implement the
numerical experiments discussed in the thesis. For example, the data of
the analytical continuation of the square root function can be
generated by running:

    $ cd analytical-continuation; ./sqrt > sqrt.dat
    
The results can be visualized either with `viz`:

    $ /path/to/viz sqrt.dat:0:1:2
    
where `sqrt.dat` is an ascii file with columns of floating
numbers. The suffix ":0:1:2" means that the first column correspond to
the x spatial coordinate, the second to the y coordinate and the third
to the z coordinate.

The results can also be visualized with Gnuplot or loaded in GNU Octave.

## Authors

  * Thomas Foetisch - *Main author*
  * Alexander Monin - *Supervision*
  * Prof. Mikhail Shaposhnikov - *Supervision*

## License
This work is distributed under the GPLv3 license. See the content of
the file LICENSE for further details.

## Citation
If you want to reuse or refer to a part or the whole of this work, please use the following citation:

    @mastersthesis{TFoetisch2012,
      title={On the Analytic Continuation of Field Configurations in Classical Field Theories},
      author={Thomas Foetisch},
      year={2012},
      institution={Ecole Polytechnique Federale de Lausanne},
      location={}
    }

